---
title: "The Craft Not Its Notion"
permalink: "the-craft-not-its-notion"
---

Are you in love with the craft - or the *idea* of the craft?

Not surprisingly - because we are culturally pressured to make a career choice so early in life - with such little experience - the latter is more common.

* Did you choose to study law because you love it - or because you like the *IDEA* of being a highly paid, respected lawyer?
* Did you choose to become a mathematician because most of your awake time you're thinking about math problems - or because you like the *romantic notion* of being that troubled genius with a PhD title?
* Did you choose to put 'entrepreneur' in your bio because you're constantly trying out business ideas - or because that label is *hip* right now?

How to evaluate the autheticity of one's values? To distinguish natural inclinations from cultural conditioning? The self from the collective?

*What do I do when my calendar's blank, and no one's looking?* What *would* I do, for the rest of my life on a deserted island?

**For many, the craft, and the *idea* of the craft, have been mixed up for so long that it requires some serious soul-searching to begin separating them clearly again.**

It starts out clear as day: As kids, we pursue whatever pulls us in. We're then taught that some professions are more *desirable* than others, so we morph our interests as to not get outcast.

Until we reobtain that childish clarity - the ability to listen; not to our parents, not to media, nor our neighbour - but to our *selves* - we're nothing but cultural pawns.
