---
title: "You vs. You"
permalink: you-vs-you
---

_Why are you doing this? You’re tired. Just stop already._

_No - you stop! We promised ourselves to do this. You knew it was going to be hard before we set off. That’s the whole point. It’s supposed to be hard._

It’s the constant inner dialogue - nay, battle - everyone has between one’s two parts. The good and the bad.

It’s accentuated whenever we try something hard. Especially when going for a run. That’s why running is so excellent for mind sharpening.

My bad part of the brain usually awakens after the first kilometer or so.

_Okay. You’ve been a good boy but we both know you didn’t get enough sleep last night and have not fully recovered. You gotta listen to your body. Be wise about this and wrap up a bit early today._

BE WISE ABOUT THIS.

See, that’s the problem. Your bad part is so good at coming up with excuses and convincing yourself, it’s ridiculous. Much stronger than your good part.

But with some trickery you can learn to beat the bad part on a daily basis.

Before heading out on that run, prepare some comebacks to fight off the demons. So that you can confidently retort “it’s supposed to be hard, bitch” and keep going undisturbed.

Or just make the bad part less powerful by taking away some of its tools and triggers that usually wake it up (such as the cookie jar in your kitchen).

Little by little, step by step we can all conquer our inner bitch.But the first and also most important step is simply recognizing this dual nature of yours. That you have a higher and lower self.

That your mind is naturally soft, but can be hardened with practice.

Because only then can you stop identifying with your bad parts. No longer uninitiated, aware of your enemy and ready for battle.
