---
title: "Spark"
permalink: spark
category: fiction
---

"No!" he mimed, gazing out over the lake surrounded by silent trees. This is magic, he thought...weird. Emotion colours the mind in such unusual beauty. Can I not observe it in contentment?

"Follow me, will you? It's no longer occupied." She once again turned around to the free table in the opposite end of the pier and stood there waiting for him with a smile.

He didn't. For some reason, this table, in the shade, felt right. Why she wouldn't she bow down? Did it anger him? Not much. But the fact that half the restaurant was now becoming aware of their little theatre - did. And the fact that *that* did - really did. Simply looking at her was the equivalent of going full throttle with a gas stove on an already boiling bowl of pasta. He returned to the lake for consultation. Looking; but it was no longer as beautiful as the previous minute. That's it. He stood up and walked up to her, "If you're gonna be this stubborn I'll leave right now. I'm not even that hungry, I've already eaten twice today."

"No, I want this to be nice, it's our last real day together before you leave."

The pasta was now all over the stove with water running down the floor. He turned, substituting his vision of her for the lake that was now joining the trees in practicing silence.

"I can't see why it's such a big deal, the table's much nicer" she said as they sat down in the shade. "What's the matter with you? Why aren't you answering me? It's not nice."

"Answer what?" he retorted, almost hypnotized.

"Well, I've been talking to you - I asked you a question".

"Mm...no you didn't? What did you ask?" Now a bit nicer.

"Why you didn't want to sit in the sun?" Remarkably, still with a smile on her face.

"Is that what you want to discuss before I leave?"

"Hi, can I take your orders?" the young waitress delivered, in a way that only someone who've said it over a thousand times can.

"Well we've not managed to look at the menu yet, can you-"

"Meatballs and a glass of still water, thank you." He handed over his menu.

"Okay, guess I'll have the same then", following up with an insecure laughter.

The waitress retrieved the menu from under her heavy palms and left them observing air in silence. A bypasser would've thought they were visiting a funeral right after.

Yes, he was leaving tomorrow. But not now. Now was eternity, and everything was sparkling. *She* was sparkling.

"I'm sorry."

The lake had showed him; beauty was back.
