---
title: "Why you Need to Move (Out)"
permalink: move-out
---

What does every hero's journey have in common?

Leaving home.

Whether it's your home country or parent's basement. That is always the initial step.

The act of divorcing your past.

Why is that?

Well, it’s obviously not a journey if you just stay in the same place.

For it to be a journey, there has to be an element of movement.

Nothing worthwhile has ever arisen out of stagnation. Never out of comfort.

This is why we need to embrace uncertainty by moving out of our home environment.

## Why Living With Your Parents (or off of Them) is so Detrimental

Everybody’s talking about student loans.

How this generation of college students are screwed. And that the solution is for them to move back with their parents to save money.

But there’s an even more important conversation that’s not being held at all. Namely that there are serious psychological drawbacks living with your parents.

After 18, you’re being a child in a grown body by living with your parents. It doesn’t matter if they’re the nicest people on earth. As long as you are a beneficiary of someone else’s hard work - you, my friend, are not an independent human being.

So if you haven’t already: get off your parents’ paychecks. It’s stunting your growth and making you resent them for it.

## It’s Time to Face the World!

If you seek to embark on a hero’s journey, then it’s time to set out on your own and finally face the world. To jump into the bigger pond and realize how small a fish you’ve really been until now.

Move out of your parents house and leave your hometown.

Better yet - leave the country.

Don’t have any money saved up? Good.

Do it anyway. Find a job. Figure it out.

This is about embracing uncertainty and becoming independent.

And it’s about damn time.
