---
title: "There's no Risk: A Logical Case for Taking Action"
permalink: no-risk
---
Execution requires humility. There's always a chance of failure. In order to try, you gotta be willing to fail. And that's why many won't. They're afraid. Afraid to be humiliated. To fail that job interview, not successfully start that business or not loose those 20 pounds. It's too much of a risk.

And understandably so. Human brains are wired for comfort and security - not risk-taking. But is it possible to view "trying hard things" differently? As not risky? The following is a logical case for taking action.

## On clichés
Many times, the most accurate and valuable advice is hiding in plain sight, under the cover of a cliché. That's the very nature of a cliché! A cliché is no more than a successful meme. It's spread when a lot of people have come to the same conclusion and later shared it with others. And when people hear something often enough, it becomes obvious and the brain filters it out.

Moreover, you're often blind to the best advice because you haven't experienced it yet. You haven't reached the conclusion yourself. You think you get it, but you really don't. Not until you come to the conclusion as a result of real life events will you understand what that other guy really was talking about.

It's analogous to when you're sitting in lecture, not understanding a word. Then you go home, sleep on it, open up the text book the next day, figure it out and think to yourself "why did he have to complicate it so much?" It's not that the professor complicated it any more than the text book - you just weren't ready for it. But after some subconscious processing, it finally clicked.

Does this mean that advice giving is useless? Well, no. You're not always blind to good advice. And by being aware of this cognitive fallacy you can start paying more attention. You can be more open minded to other people's ideas even if you haven't intuitively internalized it yet.

## Either you win or you learn.
> You gotta act and you gotta be willing to fail. Willing to crash and burn.
> 
> There's no risk. If you fail, the experience is gonna be worth ten times the cost.
> 
> If you're afraid of failing, you won't get very far.
> 
> <cite>Steve Jobs</cite>

"Learn from your failures". It's a cliché. But as previously discussed, that doesn't necessarily make it less true (quite the contrary). And in this case, it actually is true. Or at least it can be.

You will be the determining factor of whether the catchphrase holds or not. Either you decide that you're gonna learn. Decide to try and find the positives in the negatives (what James Altucher eloquently calls a gratitude problem). To view failure as a blessing. Or - the other alternative is to feel sorry about yourself whenever something bad happens. To shy away from failure and never improve.

## Regret and opportunity cost
>To venture causes anxiety, but not to venture is to lose one’s self…and to venture in the highest sense is precisely to become conscious of one’s self.
> 
> <cite>Søren Kierkegaard</cite>

It may be helpful to think of this in terms of opportunity cost. It's a well known fact that the most common regrets older people have isn't about what they did do but about what they didn't do. And regret is an awful thing. Because there's not much you can do about it once you're old. (Though actiontakers are paradoxically the ones who wouldn't dread over a missed opportunity as elders because they probably would find the upside in it.)

So when you take potential regret coupled with the learning experience into account, it becomes illogical not to try. The opportunity cost is simply too big and then we haven't even taken financial cost into account (the potential monetary upside you pass up on on - that alone is a reason enough for many entrepreneurs to take action). It's not that you won't be afraid but that the potential upside will override it.

## It's time to do.
>Stop researching every aspect of it and reading all about it and debating the pros and cons of it … Start doing it.
> 
> <cite>Jocko Willink</cite>

Now, if you're reading this, you've got a choice. To be risk averse or a "risk taker" (though, as established, the risk is most often exaggerated). There's nothing wrong about being risk averse but if you're complaining and being unhappy with your current situation - there's more risk staying where you are. And especially if you're young. Then you don't have as many responsibilities (family, house, car, etc.) so there's really no reason not to go out and experiment.

Sure, it's comfortable living a risk free life. Those who never dare to try, live in constant denial about their abilities. Fantasy land is comfortable. In your imagination you'll always be more achieved and capable than you really are. That's, I think, the biggest reason why most people never dare to try. The comfortable are afraid of discovering their limits.

So, either you continue on the comfortable path. Living as usual and don't commit to your goals. Or, you throw your vulnerable self out there, fully accepting the reality that you might fail (which you probably will, let's be honest), but also realizing that in the long run, that mentality ultimately will bring you an adventure not worth foregoing.