---
title: "What's the Most Important Aspect of a Business?"
permalink: business
---
It can be wise to always be a bit skeptical about entrepreneurs giving you advice since many times they’re just handing you their winning lottery ticket number. Advice that worked for them but might not, nay - probably won’t, work for you.

The guy who trippled down on marketing will say that marketing and sales is the key to success. And the entrepreneur who only focused on product development is going to praise that and so on and so forth.

I’m not trying to be cynical and claim that entrepreneurship is pure luck. It’s not. It’s a lot of hard work - and some luck (which comes from positioning yourself correctly).

However, it can be really hard to correctly identify what’s causality vs. correlation in the complex world of business (and in life for that matter). For instance, the guy who went all in on marketing might have succeeded despite of it, not because of it.

That being said, let me present to you what entrepreneur legend Richard Branson has to say about the question of a business’ most important part.

His answer?

**The people.**

> Success in business is all about people, people, people. [1]

In an interview he elaborates:

> I think the most important thing about running a company is to remember all the time what a company is.
> 
> A company is simply a group of people.
> 
> And as a leader of people you have to be a great listener, you have to be a great motivator, you have to be very good at praising and looking for the best in people. [2]

So, according to Branson, the most important part is being a people person.

Now, are there exceptions to this? Of course! That’s what the first disclosure was about. You can imagine that you’d get a completely different answer from Elon Musk for instance (most likely “the product”).

Your job thus becomes to make sense of all these different (and sometimes diametrically opposed) pieces of information that's out there. Always ask yourself why a certain person might think the way he or she does. What makes him or her say that? Does it make sense given your current situation?

This is why entrepreneurship is more of an art than a science.

## Footnotes
[1] Richard Branson: Why business is about people, people and people

[2] Richard Branson: Advice for Entrepreneurs, Big Think

Note that this article originally was published as [an answer I wrote on Quora.](https://www.quora.com/Whats-the-most-important-aspect-to-a-business)