---
title: "What Your Stance on the Corona Virus Says About You"
permalink: corona
---
There's this quick test to find out if you and your partner is a good fit:

Lock yourself together in a hotel room abroad, where there's no internet connection
Then secretly sabotage the wifi router and watch your partner's reaction
If you can survive a whole day without killing each other, you've passed the test and prospects are looking good. You'll endure a marriage. Or so the saying goes.

I like to think that the current Corona virus is just such a wifi-test but on a grander scale. As if the universe is testing humanity's rationality and ability to collaborate.

But those with more conservative, conscientious minds will paint a picture of crisis. Those with an inherent distrust for the average citizen's ability to reason and take care of himself will doubt civilizations ability to handle this whole situation.

Whereas those with more open and optimistic minds will not pay much attention to the whole matter since their intuition says that we'll figure it out.

Ultimately, I think it will be these kind of optimistic people that'll determine our fate. They'll be the ones that can take an objective look at the matter - not the neurotic ones. And objective you have to be, if an optimal solution you seek.

So, in order for humanity to pass this wifi-test, we'll just have to remember...

> Life's a piece of shit,
> 
> When you look at it.
> 
> Life's a laugh and death's a joke, it's true,
> 
> You'll see it's all a show,
> 
> Keep 'em laughing as you go.
> 
> Just remember that the last laugh is on you!
> 
> And always look on the bright side of life.