---
title: "Should you do Stuff That Don't Scale?"
permalink: scale
category: "business"
---

In his essay, _Do Things that Don't Scale_, Paul Graham explains a common misconception about startup scaling:

> A lot of would-be founders believe that startups either take off or don't. You build something, make it available, and if you've made a better mousetrap, people beat a path to your door as promised. Or they don't, in which case the market must not exist.
> 
> Actually startups take off because the founders make them take off.

In other words: if you don't have any loyal customers yet - don't even think about scalability!

It sounds convincing, but what distinguishes "making it take off" from just "building something and making it available"? Is it sales and marketing? That, as well as superb customer service. This is where the nonscalability comes in.

> ...recruit users manually and give them an overwhelmingly good experience

Pinterest co-founder went and personally recruited users at a design conference.

Airbnb's founders went knocking door to door to both recruit new users and get feedback from current ones.

Tim Cook doesn't send you a hand-written note after you buy a laptop. Because he can't. But you can. That's one advantage of being small: you can provide a level of service no big company can.

## Leanness

Your MVP will suck. Even if you've built something you need yourself. That's why early feedback is essential. That's what Pinterest and Airbnb did right. In early stages you will have to make up for in customer service what you don't yet have in product.

This is also why you initially should focus on a small, niched market - even if your final vision is much bigger. You can't engage with users and understand them if they're scattered over multiple different markets.

## Why Smart People Fail

All of this is unnatural to most startup founders. You have to embody two opposing characteristics at once. You have to be

1. Tech savvy, _and_
2. Customer oriented

And since most software startups are founded by introverted engineers, they often forget about or refuse to do the second part of interacting with potential users.
