posts/post-bell.mdx, before:

---
title: "In Search of a Modern Bell Labs"
date: "2023-09-16"
description: "Starting Anew In Institutional Decay"
image: "/frontier/bell-labs-ny-hq.png"
# draft: true
---

The 20th century put a fork in progress. There's a time before the personal computer, and there's a time after, in which our work, leisure, and even relationships, will never be the same. In the 20th century, physicists, engineers, and mathematicians were altering the trajectory of humanity with shorter intervals than the US builds overpasses today. They were able to do this because they had access to healthy consensus-making machines allowing for cross-disciplinary collaboration. The most successful of such collaborations was Bell Labs.

In 2023 we find ourselves in a situation where the brightest young turks struggle to find institutions to support them. William Shockley, the inventor of the transistor, did his doctorate at Caltech and was later recruited by the coallition of crazy minds that was Bell Labs. But had he been born in 1990, he would have either had his spirit crushed in tracked academia, perhaps sidetracked by the intrinsicalities of quantum gravity, or at best later been fired from Google for his views on race and intelligence. When telecommunication is no longer the frontier, one shouldn't bully the very types of minds that could discover teleportation.

But trying to recreate Bell Labs in 2023 would be a mistake for multiple reasons. The obvious being that the frontier is temporal: The telephone is no longer the frontier – and as a cultural aside, neither is AI (AI will not take us out of institutional decay, it's arguably part of it). But the far more pernicious reason is that the institutions that Bell Labs relied on are dead. War is no longer a motivator, academia is a credentialism industry, and regulation has made it harder to innovate anywhere that isn't online. And while there is some value in trying to reform from the inside in Washington, DC, or Cambridge, MA, it's no doubt harder than starting anew. In this article we explore what such new institutions might look like.

## Stuck in Local Optima

So what is the Bell Labs of 2023? It's important to think about because technological progress is not just about inventing things, it's also about inventing ways of inventing things. If it is not to close as a century defined by stagnation, the 21st century is in dire need of healthy institutions.

A tempting answer may be OpenAI. And while it's not nearly as tracked as the rest of big tech, it's a closed project of narrower scope. The transistor was a multidisciplinary achievement involving solid state physics, material science, electrical engineering, chemistry, mechanical engineering, and mathematics. ChatGPT was built using all but one of those disciplines.

Out of all of the STEM fields, computer science, a subfield of mathematics, is arguably the easiest to self-study, which in part explains why software has become such a popoular resort for the institutionless and benefited from an explosion in creativity thus. The colleges will deny the effectiveness of self-study no matter the field; that knowledge acquired in one's chamber is somehow inferior to knowledge acquired in a classroom setting. The reactionary view becomes that there is no value whatsoever to communal learning. As with most extremist positions, both views are a tell that they're trying to cover something up. If there was nothing to miss out on, the dropout would not feel the need to constantly assert it. Likewise, if our institutions would have been working, they wouldn't have been so occupied with trying to deny lone genius theory, it would have been a non-issue. But as a culture we are still overindexed on college, so I will not countersignal the dropout anymore. And because the institutions are halting, they need to defend their existence at the slightest hint of threat. And because they can't deliver the results, they need to deny anyone who tries to exit and try their luck outside the institution.

This is not a competition in what project can invoke the highest number of disciplines. Nor am I questioning the utility of a product like ChatGPT – I am using it to write this very article. And OpenAI might one day create "safe AGI," but the company is not yet as exploding and cross-disciplined of an idea factory as Bell Labs was. Bell Labs, a spinoff R&D lab of AT&T, produced the most important inventions of the 20th century, including the transistor, the laser, and the UNIX operating system. Over its 50-year history, it won nine Nobel prizes, and laid the foundation for the personal computer. In terms of broad, positive societal impact, Bell Labs might take the cake as the most successful science and technology project known to history. OpenAI has a chat bot.

Another tempting answer is the San-Francisco-based startup incubator Y-Combinator. YC has produced some of the highest market caps of the 21st century, including Airbnb, Dropbox, and Stripe. Again I pose the question whether these companies have pushed humanity to the same degree as the transistor?

> Some people say, "Give the customers what they want." But that's not my approach. Our job is to figure out what they're going to want before they do. I think Henry Ford once said, "If I'd asked customers what they wanted, they would have told me, 'A faster horse!'" People don't know what they want until you show it to them. That's why I never rely on market research. Our task is to read things that are not yet on the page. — Steve Jobs

The most recent company that can hold its own against the inventions of Bell Labs is Apple. Apple was founded in 1976, and in its first 20 years it completely defined a new era of personal computing and technology business. Apple would not have been able to do this without Steve Jobs vision. Had he and Woz followed the sort of random-walk advice that YC gives, they would have ended up with a landing page and an email form. Instead they built a computer in a garage. When Bell Labs was first developing the mobile phone, all of their marketing studies concluded that "there was no market for mobile phones at any price." (p. 289) Engel, the head of the mobile developmen, later came to believe that marketing studies could only tell you something about the demand for products that already exist. Steve Jobs had a similar view that people don't know what they want until you show it to them.

This leaves us with only one contemporary institution that isn’t stuck in a local optimum: the internet, but it has its own set of issues.

## The Problems with the Internet

The internet is too big to usually be thought of as a single institution. There are certain characteristics of the internet that generalize, but it's more helpful to think of it as a network of institutions, or a superinstitution. And the institutions that are most important to the internet are the ones that are most under attack: The ones that allow for free speech and free association.

But the problem with the internet is that it's virtual and humans are embodied, we need to interact in physical space to use our full potential. So the internet is not enough, we need to think about institutions in physical space.

Furthermore, Bell Labs was a collaboration between multiple institutions: AT&T, the US military, and academia, however unlike the internet, they were all workking towards a common goal: a cheap telephone, and tangentially, the nuclear bomb.

And if viewed as a single institution, the internet is not a healthy one, as it leads to blob culture. If we were to anthropomorphize it, you could argue its goal is to facilitate the unrestricted flow of information and connectivity.

So what we need is a healthy ecology of institutions that can work towards common goals in physical space.

A personal anecdote will help illustrate the point. Being a college dropout myself I found myself grasping for straws in terms of vital institutions, and I went through the same ones that I would guess the majority of wester 20-somethings turn to today: YouTube, Twitter, Joe Rogan / the podcast space. The problem w platforms like YouTube & Twitter is that they optimize the scroll, not wisdom. They don't have your flourishing as even a secondary incentive. The problem w podcasting is that it creates parasocial relationships. It's not a real relationship, it's a one-way relationship. It's not a community, it's a cult of personality.

These inherent problems of the internet have recently culminated in the "Literally Me" archetype. The archetype includes fictional characters like Rust Cohle in True Detective, Patrick Bateman in American Psycho, and William Foster in Falling Down. The archetype's name derives from the fact that so many viewers indeed feel like the character is "literally me."

But what part of the demographic feel like it is "literally them?" It is certainly not your grandparents, it is the 20-something guys who feel betrayed in some way by society. To understand why, it's necessary to understand what the archetype represents. Many of the fictional "literally me" characters are nihilists whilst still being portrayed as "right" in some sense. They are right in the sense that they are pointing out the absurdity of the status quo, and this makes people feel heard. That yes the status quo is absurd, I'm not crazy, it's the institutions that have failed me. I didn't get the same material/economical conditions as my parents and feel frustrated when culture lags and hasn't updated its expectations.

### What Causes Innovation?

> Physical proximity [to the guy who wrote the book] was everything. p.151

Innovation requires organization – of capital, and people.

Organization of capital requires monopoly. See what happened to Bell Labs, only during their monopoly phase were they innovative.

Organization people means physical proximity to geniuses, and this requires prestige to attract those people. It requires telling a bold story that convinces geniuses that this is the most important project in the history of man and will make a shit-ton of money in the case of success. Tell the story that you're just trying to make money and you'll attract rentseekers. Tell the story that you're only doing social justice and you won't have any pull.

Do modern institutions have these things? Capital perhaps, but prestige is dead.

And the guy who wrote the book on circuits, information theory, or electromagnetism, is not next door, but dead. A whole generation of scientists are being bred that conceptualize science not as a process but a body of knowledge.

### BUILDINGS

> Kelly considered the design of the building—where research scientists and development engineers from all disciplines were housed together in close proximity—yet another grand Bell Labs invention.

A big reason why tech is stuck is because of remote work. Remote work has been a powerful globalizing force, but let's not confuse quantity for quality – it hasn't led to new innovations.

The "technologists" of our time have recently turned into rentseekers. 90% of SaaS is rentseeking, they're essentially laundrymats, incredibly tracked. As long as we're all interacting through web apps, that's what we'll build. It's like college students who can only come up with business ideas for college students.

## The next iteration: the network state

It's how you solve the embodied problem of the internet.

### Prestige is Dead

Bell labs engineers were not granted stock options. At Bell Labs, the primary incentives were intellectual freedom, resources, and the opportunity to work on groundbreaking projects that could change the world. The prestige of Bell Labs attracted top talent who were driven more by the pursuit of innovation and discovery than financial gain. The opportunity to be in walking distance of "the guy who wrote the book on" any science topic, and in fact encouraged by management to never hesitate going ask these brilliant minds for help. It was a different era and business model, less about quick profits and more about laying the groundwork for entire industries.

Something that's also overlooked are the old-time dynamics of dress-code and cigarette breaks. These might seem like silly, useless relics of the past. People will say smoking is bad, but it's silly to ever consider any habit in isolation. During a cigarette break you often have the most interesting conversations stimulated by nicotine, sunlight and fresh air – much more mindexpanding than sitting alone, hunched over bluelight. And dress-code is a way to signal that what you're working on matters.

### My Map for 2023 (projects to be conducted in network-states)

What Comes After The Information Age? What does post-Bell-Labian progress look like?

no matter what the deep-state program is, technology is the weapon at your disposal. technology is political and disrupts power structures

#### 1/ Post-Einsteinian Physics

Interstellar travel (Eric Weinstein non-chem rockets / study ancient egypt / reverse-engineer UFOs)

RESEARCHERS WANTED: You will be sifting ancient Sumerian texts in university libraries, decoding Egyptian runes, and have months of ontological shock with constant coffee jitters. Return to shared reality doubtful. Immense civilizational and personal wealth in case of success.

##### It's not all cultural degeneration

there are also intentional Sidetrackers

Also Electrodynamics (telsa did great progress and then it stopped)

Research Institute of Advanced study.

Sidetrackers after Einstein:
- Wolfgang pauli
- fermi
- dirac
- Wittens

#### 2/ Resilient Computing

Holium / Urbit

#### 3/ Anti-Fakeness

Zorp / ZK proofs

#### 4/ Resilient finance

Bitcoin

#### 5/ Healthy Living

Jack Kruse decen science/cities / Ray Peat)

#### 6/ Energy too Cheap to Meter

Nuclear / Cold fusion

## Why Innovate?

There is a plethora of domains in which we're in a local optimum. There has never been a point in history with so much obesity, demensia, and mental illness. Give the market time and it will cheapen alternative food ingredients inflammatory seed oils and high-fructose corn syrup. We can't stop here. We need to innovate.

## Conclusion

Am I romanticising a past I wasn’t in to experience? The counter argument is looking at the outcomes: what inventions did it lead to? What inventions are we producing?

If you seek Assymetrical upside For both society and yourself, live by the mantra: If the whole world is learning how to fight, You should be learning how to dance.

There is no formula for the institutionless? Formula: long substance, short status.

Is there a hybrid path where we don't completely replace the old institutions with web3 etc? Yes I think it's a healthy approach to also try to reform the old institutions, but not necessarily from within. Intelligence is real, people just don't think. So thinking is the decentralized remedy to institutional decay.

---

## References

1. The Returns to College Persistence for Marginal Students: Regression Discontinuity Evidence from University Dismissal Policies, 2018 https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/abs/10.1086/696204?journalCode=jole

## Glossary

* consensus-making machine -> institution
* idea factory -> cross-disciplinary collaboration of consensus-making machines
* rentseeking -> parasitic business model
* blob culture
* post-bell-labian progress
* institutional lag
* antistutions - sidetrackers
* blue-sky research, cowboy science
* institutionless -> homeless but dropouts
* antitrend -> trends are something people are already following so it's crowded and alpha is low, antitrends are deserted ways to react to trends

Commit message:

they don't believe their brains

posts/post-bell.mdx, after:

---
title: "In Search of a Modern Bell Labs"
date: "2023-09-16"
description: "Starting Anew In Institutional Decay"
image: "/frontier/bell-labs-ny-hq.png"
# draft: true
---

The 20th century put a fork in progress. There's a time before the personal computer, and there's a time after, in which our work, leisure, and even relationships, will never be the same. In the 20th century, physicists, engineers, and mathematicians were altering the trajectory of humanity with shorter intervals than the US builds overpasses today. They were able to do this because they had access to healthy consensus-making machines allowing for cross-disciplinary collaboration. The most successful of such collaborations was Bell Labs.

In 2023 we find ourselves in a situation where the brightest young turks struggle to find institutions to support them. William Shockley, the inventor of the transistor, did his doctorate at Caltech and was later recruited by the coallition of crazy minds that was Bell Labs. But had he been born in 1990, he would have either had his spirit crushed in tracked academia, perhaps sidetracked by the implications of quantum gravity, or at best later been fired from Google for his views on race and intelligence. When telecommunication is no longer the frontier, one shouldn't bully the very types of minds that could discover teleportation.

But trying to recreate Bell Labs in 2023 would be a mistake for multiple reasons. The obvious being that the frontier is temporal: The telephone is no longer the frontier – and as a cultural aside, neither is AI (AI will not take us out of institutional decay, it's arguably part of it). But the far more pernicious reason is that the institutions that Bell Labs relied on are dead. War is no longer a motivator, academia is a credentialism industry, and regulation has made it harder to innovate anywhere that isn't online. And while there is some value in trying to reform from the inside in Washington, DC, or Cambridge, MA, it's no doubt harder than starting anew. In this article we explore what such new institutions might look like.

## Stuck in Local Optima

So what is the Bell Labs of 2023? It's important to think about because technological progress is not just about inventing things, it's also about inventing ways of inventing things. If it is not to close as a century defined by stagnation, the 21st century is in dire need of healthy institutions.

A tempting answer may be OpenAI. And while it's not nearly as tracked as the rest of big tech, it's a closed project of narrower scope. The transistor was a multidisciplinary achievement involving solid state physics, material science, electrical engineering, chemistry, mechanical engineering, and mathematics. ChatGPT was built using all but one of those disciplines.

Out of all of the STEM fields, computer science, a subfield of mathematics, is arguably the easiest to self-study, which in part explains why software has become such a popoular resort for the institutionless and benefited from an explosion in creativity thus. The colleges will deny the effectiveness of self-study no matter the field; that knowledge acquired in one's chamber is somehow inferior to knowledge acquired in a classroom setting. The reactionary view becomes that there is no value whatsoever to communal learning. As with most extremist positions, both views are a tell that they're trying to cover something up. If there was nothing to miss out on, the dropout would not feel the need to constantly assert it. Likewise, if our institutions would have been working, they wouldn't have been so occupied with trying to deny lone genius theory, it would have been a non-issue. But as a culture we are still overindexed on college, so I will not countersignal the dropout anymore. And because the institutions are halting, they need to defend their existence at the slightest hint of threat. And because they can't deliver the results, they need to deny anyone who tries to exit and try their luck outside the institution.

This is not a competition in what project can invoke the highest number of disciplines. Nor am I questioning the utility of a product like ChatGPT – I am using it to write this very article. And OpenAI might one day create "safe AGI," but the company is not yet as exploding and cross-disciplined of an idea factory as Bell Labs was. Bell Labs, a spinoff R&D lab of AT&T, produced the most important inventions of the 20th century, including the transistor, the laser, and the UNIX operating system. Over its 50-year history, it won nine Nobel prizes, and laid the foundation for the personal computer. In terms of broad, positive societal impact, Bell Labs might take the cake as the most successful science and technology project known to history. OpenAI has a chat bot.

Another tempting answer is the San-Francisco-based startup incubator Y-Combinator. YC has produced some of the highest market caps of the 21st century, including Airbnb, Dropbox, and Stripe. Again I pose the question whether these companies have pushed humanity to the same degree as the transistor?

> Some people say, "Give the customers what they want." But that's not my approach. Our job is to figure out what they're going to want before they do. I think Henry Ford once said, "If I'd asked customers what they wanted, they would have told me, 'A faster horse!'" People don't know what they want until you show it to them. That's why I never rely on market research. Our task is to read things that are not yet on the page. — Steve Jobs

The most recent company that can hold its own against the inventions of Bell Labs is Apple. Apple was founded in 1976, and in its first 20 years it completely defined a new era of personal computing and technology business. Apple would not have been able to do this without Steve Jobs vision. Had he and Woz followed the sort of random-walk advice that YC gives, they would have ended up with a landing page and an email form. Instead they built a computer in a garage. When Bell Labs was first developing the mobile phone, all of their marketing studies concluded that "there was no market for mobile phones at any price" (p. 289). Engel, the head of the mobile development, later came to believe that marketing studies could only tell you something about the demand for products that already exist. Steve Jobs had a similar view that people don't know what they want until you show it to them.

Fundamentally the YC adherents don't believe their brains, or at best they outsource thinking to AI. Instead of envisioning the future they ask the Joe on the street what he craves and fills that need. "Make something people want" is great business advice, but if what people want is a faster horse, you'll be stuck in a local optimum.

This leaves us with only one contemporary institution that isn’t stuck in a local optimum: the internet, but it has its own set of issues.

## The Problems with the Internet

The internet is too big to usually be thought of as a single institution. There are certain characteristics of the internet that generalize, but it's more helpful to think of it as a network of institutions, or a superinstitution. And the institutions that are most important to the internet are the ones that are most under attack: The ones that allow for free speech and free association.

But the problem with the internet is that it's virtual and humans are embodied, we need to interact in physical space to use our full potential. So the internet is not enough, we need to think about institutions in physical space.

Furthermore, Bell Labs was a collaboration between multiple institutions: AT&T, the US military, and academia, however unlike the internet, they were all workking towards a common goal: a cheap telephone, and tangentially, the nuclear bomb.

And if viewed as a single institution, the internet is not a healthy one, as it leads to blob culture. If we were to anthropomorphize it, you could argue its goal is to facilitate the unrestricted flow of information and connectivity.

So what we need is a healthy ecology of institutions that can work towards common goals in physical space.

A personal anecdote will help illustrate the point. Being a college dropout myself I found myself grasping for straws in terms of vital institutions, and I went through the same ones that I would guess the majority of wester 20-somethings turn to today: YouTube, Twitter, Joe Rogan / the podcast space. The problem w platforms like YouTube & Twitter is that they optimize the scroll, not wisdom. They don't have your flourishing as even a secondary incentive. The problem w podcasting is that it creates parasocial relationships. It's not a real relationship, it's a one-way relationship. It's not a community, it's a cult of personality.

These inherent problems of the internet have recently culminated in the "Literally Me" archetype. The archetype includes fictional characters like Rust Cohle in True Detective, Patrick Bateman in American Psycho, and William Foster in Falling Down. The archetype's name derives from the fact that so many viewers indeed feel like the character is "literally me."

But what part of the demographic feel like it is "literally them?" It is certainly not your grandparents, it is the 20-something guys who feel betrayed in some way by society. To understand why, it's necessary to understand what the archetype represents. Many of the fictional "literally me" characters are nihilists whilst still being portrayed as "right" in some sense. They are right in the sense that they are pointing out the absurdity of the status quo, and this makes people feel heard. That yes the status quo is absurd, I'm not crazy, it's the institutions that have failed me. I didn't get the same material/economical conditions as my parents and feel frustrated when culture lags and hasn't updated its expectations.

### What Causes Innovation?

> Physical proximity [to the guy who wrote the book] was everything. p.151

Innovation requires organization – of capital, and people.

Organization of capital requires monopoly. See what happened to Bell Labs, only during their monopoly phase were they innovative.

Organization people means physical proximity to geniuses, and this requires prestige to attract those people. It requires telling a bold story that convinces geniuses that this is the most important project in the history of man and will make a shit-ton of money in the case of success. Tell the story that you're just trying to make money and you'll attract rentseekers. Tell the story that you're only doing social justice and you won't have any pull.

Do modern institutions have these things? Capital perhaps, but prestige is dead.

And the guy who wrote the book on circuits, information theory, or electromagnetism, is not next door, but dead. A whole generation of scientists are being bred that conceptualize science not as a process but a body of knowledge.

### BUILDINGS

> Kelly considered the design of the building—where research scientists and development engineers from all disciplines were housed together in close proximity—yet another grand Bell Labs invention.

A big reason why tech is stuck is because of remote work. Remote work has been a powerful globalizing force, but let's not confuse quantity for quality – it hasn't led to new innovations.

The "technologists" of our time have recently turned into rentseekers. 90% of SaaS is rentseeking, they're essentially laundrymats, incredibly tracked. As long as we're all interacting through web apps, that's what we'll build. It's like college students who can only come up with business ideas for college students.

## The next iteration: the network state

It's how you solve the embodied problem of the internet.

### Prestige is Dead

Apollo 11 was the last time we were ONE.

Bell labs engineers were not granted stock options. At Bell Labs, the primary incentives were intellectual freedom, resources, and the opportunity to work on groundbreaking projects that could change the world. The prestige of Bell Labs attracted top talent who were driven more by the pursuit of innovation and discovery than financial gain. The opportunity to be in walking distance of "the guy who wrote the book on" any science topic, and in fact encouraged by management to never hesitate going ask these brilliant minds for help. It was a different era and business model, less about quick profits and more about laying the groundwork for entire industries.

Something that's also overlooked are the old-time dynamics of dress-code and cigarette breaks. These might seem like silly, useless relics of the past. People will say smoking is bad, but it's silly to ever consider any habit in isolation. During a cigarette break you often have the most interesting conversations stimulated by nicotine, sunlight and fresh air – much more mindexpanding than sitting alone, hunched over bluelight. And dress-code is a way to signal that what you're working on matters.

### My Map for 2023 (projects to be conducted in network-states)

What Comes After The Information Age? What does post-Bell-Labian progress look like?

no matter what the deep-state program is, technology is the weapon at your disposal. technology is political and disrupts power structures

#### 1/ Post-Einsteinian Physics

Interstellar travel (Eric Weinstein non-chem rockets / study ancient egypt / reverse-engineer UFOs)

RESEARCHERS WANTED: You will be sifting ancient Sumerian texts in university libraries, decoding Egyptian runes, and have months of ontological shock with constant coffee jitters. Return to shared reality doubtful. Immense civilizational and personal wealth in case of success.

##### It's not all cultural degeneration

there are also intentional Sidetrackers

Also Electrodynamics (telsa did great progress and then it stopped)

Research Institute of Advanced study.

Sidetrackers after Einstein:
- Wolfgang pauli
- fermi
- dirac
- Wittens

#### 2/ Resilient Computing

Holium / Urbit

#### 3/ Anti-Fakeness

Zorp / ZK proofs

#### 4/ Resilient finance

Bitcoin

#### 5/ Healthy Living

Jack Kruse decen science/cities / Ray Peat)

#### 6/ Energy too Cheap to Meter

Nuclear / Cold fusion

## Why Innovate?

There is a plethora of domains in which we're in a local optimum. There has never been a point in history with so much obesity, demensia, and mental illness. Give the market time and it will cheapen alternative food ingredients inflammatory seed oils and high-fructose corn syrup. We can't stop here. We need to innovate.

## Conclusion

Am I romanticising a past I wasn’t in to experience? The counter argument is looking at the outcomes: what inventions did it lead to? What inventions are we producing?

If you seek Assymetrical upside For both society and yourself, live by the mantra: If the whole world is learning how to fight, You should be learning how to dance.

There is no formula for the institutionless? Formula: long substance, short status.

Is there a hybrid path where we don't completely replace the old institutions with web3 etc? Yes I think it's a healthy approach to also try to reform the old institutions, but not necessarily from within. Intelligence is real, people just don't think. So thinking is the decentralized remedy to institutional decay.

---

## References

1. The Returns to College Persistence for Marginal Students: Regression Discontinuity Evidence from University Dismissal Policies, 2018 https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/abs/10.1086/696204?journalCode=jole

## Glossary

* consensus-making machine -> institution
* idea factory -> cross-disciplinary collaboration of consensus-making machines
* rentseeking -> parasitic business model
* blob culture
* post-bell-labian progress
* institutional lag
* antistutions - sidetrackers
* blue-sky research, cowboy science
* institutionless -> homeless but dropouts
* antitrend -> trends are something people are already following so it's crowded and alpha is low, antitrends are deserted ways to react to trends
